PART 1: 
Describe Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) (1p)
EC2 is a virtual machine service provided by AWS. Instead of buying, setting up, and
maintaining physical servers, you can leverage EC2 instances to run your applications and
workloads.
2. What do we mean when we say “Buckets” in relation to AWS? (1p)
A bucket is like a virtual container where you can store data. Inside a bucket you store objects
(images, documents, backups, etc). They can be used for file hosting, backup and archiving,
and content distribution. You can store any number of objects in a bucket and you can have
up to 100 buckets in your AWS account.
3. What is CloudFront? (1p)
CloudFront is a content delivery network operated by AWS. CloudFront takes your web
content and spreads it across its edge locations. When a user clicks a link or opens a page,
CloudFront gets the content from the nearest edge location.
4. What is the Principle of Least Privilege? (1p)
PoLP ensures that every module only has access to what is absolutely necessary for its
purpose. It is needed for security, fault tolerance and ease of deployment. An example is a
user account, it doesn’t need access to admin features so it isn’t given them.
5. What is RedShift? (1p)
RedShift is a fully-managed cloud data warehouse. It uses SQL to analyse data for you. It’s
fast, scalable, and easy to use.
6. What is a Security Group in the AWS world? (1p)
A security group acts as a virtual firewall for your AWS resources. They control incoming and
outgoing traffic based on a set of rules. You can define rules within the security group to allow
or deny specific types of traffic.
7. What is a Subnet ? (1p)
Subnets help you organise and partition your resources. Each subnet has its own IP address
range. They can be public or private. For example, your EC2 instance hosting a website
would be public so people can visit it, but your database server would be private. They can
utilise different availability zones so that if there is an outage in one it doesn’t affect all your
resources.
8. What is VPC in the AWS ecosystem? (1p)
Amazon Virtual Private Cloud helps you design and manage your own private network within
the cloud. It is made up of subnets, route tables, and security groups. VPC can be used for
hosting web apps, hybrid cloud, and multi-tier architectures.
9. What is AWS Certificate Manager? (1p)
These certificates ensure secure connections between users and your AWS resources. When
hosting a website, ACM checks the certificate validity of someone making a HTTPS request.
AWS certificate manager makes it easier to manage these certificates and can integrate them
with various AWS services.
10. Describe OpsWorks? (1p)
OpsWorks is a configuration management service that helps you configure and operate
applications in the cloud. It used Chef to define how servers are configured, and Puppet to
ensure every server follows the same manifest for consistency. It has an auto healing mode
PART 2: ANSWERS
PART 3: S3 deployed web URL
PART 4: ECS deployed web URL: http://ec2-3-88-182-103.compute-1.amazonaws.com:8888/
